README.md, before:

LogPipe
=======

LogPipe is a monolog handler, an application and related libraries to pass and display log messages in real time by
sending them over udp or over a named pipe in case there is a dumper listening. If no dumper is listening on the
specified transport, the messages are simply discarded. 

LogPipe is designed to have a minimal impact on performance, and as such it will discard events if it encounters any
issues while sending it.

## Installing

To install globally using composer:

    $ composer global require noccylabs/logpipe

To install into a project using composer:

    $ composer require noccylabs/logpipe

As LogPipe uses external streams to communicate between logger and dumper, both are valid. Minor differences exist
in the protocols currently however, meaning that the version of the global version really should match that used by
the project.

## Using on command line

To start (listening for and) dumping events on the default port (`udp:127.0.0.1:6999`) just use the **dump** command:

    $ bin/logpipe dump

You can also specify to explicityly listen on a specific transport by providing it as an argument.

    $ bin/logpipe dump tcp:0.0.0.0:9999

You can create some test events by using the **test** command in another terminal while the **dump** command is
running:

    $ bin/logpipe test

To save the log while viewing it, try using tee:

    $ bin/logpipe dump --no-ansi | tee messages.log


## Using with Symfony

To use LogPipe with Symfony you only need to register the handler as a service so that it can be used with Monolog.
This is preferably done in the `config_dev.yml` file. If there is a `services:` block, add the sections to it, otherwise
create it:

    services:
        logpipe.handler:
            class:      NoccyLabs\LogPipe\Handler\LogPipeHandler
            arguments:  [ "udp:127.0.0.1:6999" ]

Then define the handler in the same file. By doing it in `config_dev.yml`, your live environment will not use the
LogPipe logger.

    monolog:
        handlers:
            ...
            logpipe:
                type:   service
                id:     logpipe.handler

To use a custom serializer, provide it with the endpoint URI: `udp:127.0.0.1:6999:serializer=msgpack` etc.
As the policy is *fail and forget*, you will not receive any errors if the serializer is not supported. Calling
on a non-existing serializer will throw an exception.

## Using elsewhere

LogPipe can be set up to automatically log exceptions and errors:

    use NoccyLabs\LogPipe\Handler\ConsoleHandler;

    $handler = new ConsoleHandler("tcp:127.0.0.1:9999:serializer=json");
    $handler->setExceptionReporting(true);
    $handler->setErrorReporting(true);

You can also write events manually:

    $handler->debug("This is a debug message!");
    $handler->warning("Danger! Danger!");


## Transports

 -  **UDP** (`udp:<host>:<port>`)
    The default transport is over UDP port 6999. Messages sent over UDP are tagged with a 6-byte header specifying size
    and crc32 of the payload. Messages are serialized, transmitted, and once fully received and with a valid checksum
    unserialized and parsed. Note that due to how UDP works, if you spawn another dumper on the same port, the first one
    will stop receiving data without indicating an error.
 -  **TCP** (`tcp:<host>:<port>`)
    The TCP transport works kinda like the UDP transport. However, since TCP is connection-oriented some complications
    may occur if no dumper is available. This needs more testing. It should however be able to handle bigger messages.
 -  **Pipe** (`pipe:<path>`)
    The pipe transport is the default when no colon is found in the transport URI. Thus, `/var/run/foo.sock` will be
    internally translated to `pipe:/var/run/foo.sock`. The *listen()* method will create the named pipe and start
    listening for connections. Only use the pipe transport if you really have to. Concurrency might be an issue, as well 
    as some unexpected blocking issues.


## Serializers

What serializer is used is set in the sending transport. The serialization format is embedded in the message frame
(together with checksum, size and flags) to that the appropriate unserializer can be invoked. The supported
serializers are:

 -  **PHP Serializer** (`php`) - The built-in PHP serializer
 -  **Json** (`json`) - Uses Json to serialize the data
 -  **MsgPack** (`msgpack`) - Like binary json, should result in smaller messages.


## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

**Q: What does `packet with invalid checksum` mean?**

This happens when using the UDP transport. TCP is connection-oriented, and thus big messages
can be transmitted by fragmenting and reassembling the packets. UDP however, is datagram
oriented. Thus, if two clients send messages at the same time, and one of them end up being
fragmented you end up with invalid data.

To work around this issue, LogPipe adds a header block with the expected size and crc32 of
the data to make sure that frames are properly decoded. If the crc32 does not check out,
the buffer is discarded and the message in question is displayed. If you get this a lot,
try using the tcp transport.

**Q: I can't see all logged messages!!!**

LogPipe will fail quietly if anything goes wrong. This includes serialization of the log
event, transport errors and more. This is done so that a problematic logger or transport
will not cause the application being diagnosed to misbehave.

**Q: LogPipe is causing my application to misbehave!**

Please report this ASAP, unless you are able to fix the issue and commit a pull request.
As previously mentioned, the strategy is *fail and forget*, meaning that ALL AND ANY errors
that occur should be silently consumed, as to prevent the application from failing or 
misbehaving due to an auxillary logger.


## Version history

    0.2     [*] Data encapsulation stuff handled by PipeV1Protocol class.
            [*] Pipe transport considered fully functional.
    0.1.5   [+] Added more unit tests.
    0.1.3   [+] Added serializers.
            [!] Updated message- and transport structure.
            [!] Improved console commands.
    0.1.2   [*] TCP transport considered functional.
            [+] Added support for using the envvar APP_ID, or the define() APP_ID to specify
                the prefix to use. Setting neither will use the hostname as app id.
    0.1     [*] Initial release.

### Roadmap

Commit message:

Minor bugfixes, message fifo buffer, quick search

README.md, after:

LogPipe
=======

LogPipe is a monolog handler, an application and related libraries to pass and display log messages in real time by
sending them over udp or over a named pipe in case there is a dumper listening. If no dumper is listening on the
specified transport, the messages are simply discarded. 

LogPipe is designed to have a minimal impact on performance, and as such it will discard events if it encounters any
issues while sending it.

## Installing

To install globally using composer:

    $ composer global require noccylabs/logpipe

To install into a project using composer:

    $ composer require noccylabs/logpipe

As LogPipe uses external streams to communicate between logger and dumper, both are valid. Minor differences exist
in the protocols currently however, meaning that the version of the global version really should match that used by
the project.

## Using on command line

To start (listening for and) dumping events on the default port (`udp:127.0.0.1:6999`) just use the **dump** command:

    $ bin/logpipe dump

You can also specify to explicityly listen on a specific transport by providing it as an argument.

    $ bin/logpipe dump tcp:0.0.0.0:9999

You can create some test events by using the **test** command in another terminal while the **dump** command is
running:

    $ bin/logpipe test

To save the log while viewing it, try using tee:

    $ bin/logpipe dump --no-ansi | tee messages.log

### Searching the buffer

The last bunch of messages (normally 1000, but can be set with `-Cbuffer.size=N` on the command line or `:set buffer.size N`
while in the dumper) are stored in a buffer. You can at any time search this buffer and dump any matches. To do this, just
press slash (`/`) and start typing. The input will be parsed as a regular expression, so you can add modifiers to the end:

    /exception/i  <- will perform a case independent match

## Using with Symfony

To use LogPipe with Symfony you only need to register the handler as a service so that it can be used with Monolog.
This is preferably done in the `config_dev.yml` file. If there is a `services:` block, add the sections to it, otherwise
create it:

    services:
        logpipe.handler:
            class:      NoccyLabs\LogPipe\Handler\LogPipeHandler
            arguments:  [ "udp:127.0.0.1:6999" ]

Then define the handler in the same file. By doing it in `config_dev.yml`, your live environment will not use the
LogPipe logger.

    monolog:
        handlers:
            ...
            logpipe:
                type:   service
                id:     logpipe.handler

To use a custom serializer, provide it with the endpoint URI: `udp:127.0.0.1:6999:serializer=msgpack` etc.
As the policy is *fail and forget*, you will not receive any errors if the serializer is not supported. Calling
on a non-existing serializer will throw an exception.

## Using elsewhere

LogPipe can be set up to automatically log exceptions and errors:

    use NoccyLabs\LogPipe\Handler\ConsoleHandler;

    $handler = new ConsoleHandler("tcp:127.0.0.1:9999:serializer=json");
    $handler->setExceptionReporting(true);
    $handler->setErrorReporting(true);

You can also write events manually: **(not implemented)**

    $handler->debug("This is a debug message!");
    $handler->warning("Danger! Danger!");


## Transports

 -  **UDP** (`udp:<host>:<port>`)
    The default transport is over UDP port 6999. Messages sent over UDP are tagged with a 6-byte header specifying size
    and crc32 of the payload. Messages are serialized, transmitted, and once fully received and with a valid checksum
    unserialized and parsed. Note that due to how UDP works, if you spawn another dumper on the same port, the first one
    will stop receiving data without indicating an error.
 -  **TCP** (`tcp:<host>:<port>`)
    The TCP transport works kinda like the UDP transport. However, since TCP is connection-oriented some complications
    may occur if no dumper is available. This needs more testing. It should however be able to handle bigger messages.
 -  **Pipe** (`pipe:<path>`)
    The pipe transport is the default when no colon is found in the transport URI. Thus, `/var/run/foo.sock` will be
    internally translated to `pipe:/var/run/foo.sock`. The *listen()* method will create the named pipe and start
    listening for connections. Only use the pipe transport if you really have to. Concurrency might be an issue, as well 
    as some unexpected blocking issues.


## Serializers

What serializer is used is set in the sending transport. The serialization format is embedded in the message frame
(together with checksum, size and flags) to that the appropriate unserializer can be invoked. The supported
serializers are:

 -  **PHP Serializer** (`php`) - The built-in PHP serializer
 -  **Json** (`json`) - Uses Json to serialize the data
 -  **MsgPack** (`msgpack`) - Like binary json, should result in smaller messages.


## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

**Q: What does `packet with invalid checksum` mean?**

This happens when using the UDP transport. TCP is connection-oriented, and thus big messages
can be transmitted by fragmenting and reassembling the packets. UDP however, is datagram
oriented. Thus, if two clients send messages at the same time, and one of them end up being
fragmented you end up with invalid data.

To work around this issue, LogPipe adds a header block with the expected size and crc32 of
the data to make sure that frames are properly decoded. If the crc32 does not check out,
the buffer is discarded and the message in question is displayed. If you get this a lot,
try using the tcp transport.

**Q: I can't see all logged messages!!!**

LogPipe will fail quietly if anything goes wrong. This includes serialization of the log
event, transport errors and more. This is done so that a problematic logger or transport
will not cause the application being diagnosed to misbehave.

**Q: LogPipe is causing my application to misbehave!**

Please report this ASAP, unless you are able to fix the issue and commit a pull request.
As previously mentioned, the strategy is *fail and forget*, meaning that ALL AND ANY errors
that occur should be silently consumed, as to prevent the application from failing or 
misbehaving due to an auxillary logger.


## Version history

    0.2.1   [+] Implemented fifo-buffer to hold last N requests for quick searching.
    0.2     [*] Data encapsulation stuff handled by PipeV1Protocol class.
            [*] Pipe transport considered fully functional.
    0.1.5   [+] Added more unit tests.
    0.1.3   [+] Added serializers.
            [!] Updated message- and transport structure.
            [!] Improved console commands.
    0.1.2   [*] TCP transport considered functional.
            [+] Added support for using the envvar APP_ID, or the define() APP_ID to specify
                the prefix to use. Setting neither will use the hostname as app id.
    0.1     [*] Initial release.

### Roadmap
